docs: new guide for validation of AsyncAPI files (#1002)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/guides/validate.md

---
title: "Validate AsyncAPI Documents"
description: In this guide, we'll learn multiple ways to validate AsyncAPI documents.
weight: 120
---

# Introduction
In this guide, we'll learn multiple ways to validate AsyncAPI documents. 

> When people talk about AsyncAPI validation, sometimes they mean completely different things: **validation of AsyncAPI documents** or **validation of messages in runtime** _(message schemas provided in the AsyncAPI document)_.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When people talk about AsyncAPI validation, sometimes they mean completely different things: **validation of AsyncAPI documents** or **validation of messages in runtime** _(message validation against schemas provided in the AsyncAPI document)_. This guide is about validating AsyncAPI documents to make sure they are correct.
```

> # Prequisites

Reviewer: I recommend we do not do prerequisites in guides. Each section is about different ways of validating and have different requirements. It is a guide that explains different ways of doing things, so people can choose one or 2 or all, depends. So defining prerequisites can be hard and also misleading. For example maybe someone do not need governance validation, so why would they install spectral.

I think it is completely fine to remove it

Reviewer 2: Ok, sure 👍🏽

Because this guide covers multiple options for validating AsyncAPI documents, there are different tool options you might choose to install:
- [AsyncAPI CLI](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli#installation)
- [Spectral](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/spectral/b8391e051b7d8-installation)

> # Create AsyncAPI documents

Reviewer: I don't think you need to explain what asyncapi is.

Turn it into a section that says: "yo, to validate AsyncAPi document, you first need to have one, right 😉 if you did not write one for your app yet, you can easily generate one using one of our examples provided in the AsyncAPI CLI" -> and then line 20-24 is good

An AsyncAPI document is a machine-readable definition of your Event-Driven API that can be used to generate documentation and code. You can create an AsyncAPI document with the [AsyncAPI CLI](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli#installation).

Generate a sample `asyncapi.yaml` file (AsyncAPI document) with the following CLI command: 

```
asyncapi new --example=default-example.yaml --no-tty
```

# Validate AsyncAPI documents

> Validating an AsyncAPI document requires two different pieces:

Reviewer: it is not much about requirement

it is more about what people look for, so this section (or maybe intro should be extended) should rather say: "when people talk about validating AsyncAPI documents, they can mean 2 things, making sure it is correctly following AsyncAPI specification or it is correctly following the best practices or company governance rules"

so yeah, user is not required to do best practice validation (many do not care, they do not have them).

also maybe for SEO also push here somehow another phrase people use for best practice/governance validation, which is `lint`. People also say, `is there a linter for AsyncAPI`, so they have best practices linting included.

1. Validation against the specification.
2. Validation against the best practices or company governance rules.

## Validate against specification
Let's discuss options for validating against the specification. (This ensures that every content of the document is written in accordance with the AsyncAPI specification.) 

There are several tool options you may select for validating against the specification: _AsyncAPI Studio_, _AsyncAPI CLI_, and _Parsers_.

### AsyncAPI Studio validation 
[AsyncAPI Studio](https://github.com/asyncapi/studio#readme) provides a visual and easy way to validate your AsyncAPI documents against the specification. 

(It uses the [AsyncAPI JavaScript parser](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js) behind the scenes to perform syntax checks and validate documents.)

Errors in your document are highlighted with a red underline, showing which lines are invalid. The console also provides feedback, allowing you to further troubleshoot with detailed error messages.

When a document is invalid, it provides the following error: `Empty or invalid document please fix errors / define AsyncAPI document`.

### AsyncAPI CLI validation 

> The following [AsyncAPI CLI](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli#installation) command validates AsyncAPI documents in your local computer or in automation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following [AsyncAPI CLI](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli#installation) command validates AsyncAPI documents in your local computer or in CI/CD automation:
```

Reviewer: btw, you can also write that like in case of `Studio` it uses `AsyncAPI JavaScript parser` behind the scenes.

also was wondering, maybe add a tip, that people can also open Studio from CLI 😄 `asyncapi start studio`. This could be a note at the end of section

 ```
 asyncapi validate asyncapi.yaml

 ```

### Parsers (code) validation 

> AsyncAPI provides official [JavaScript](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js) and [Go](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-go) parsers for validating the JSON schema in your AsyncAPI documents. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AsyncAPI provides official [JavaScript](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js) and [Go](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-go) parsers for validating AsyncAPI documents. 
```

> <Remember>

Reviewer: this note is fine, but we need more context in paragraph above

so after sentence "AsyncAPI provides official [JavaScript](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js) and [Go](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-go) parsers for validating AsyncAPI documents. "

We need something like:

"Large part of validation is based on validating AsyncAPI documents against [the official AsyncAPI JSON Schema document](https://github.com/asyncapi/spec-json-schemas). There is also some custom validation that is not possible to cover with JSON Schema."

If you do not run your schemas through the parsers, the JSON schemas alone cannot complete the entire validation. 

Learn more about [custom JSON Schemas validation needs](https://github.com/asyncapi/spec-json-schemas#custom-validation-needs).
</Remember>

> ## Validation against company best practices or governance

Reviewer: regarding one of my comments about linting, maybe this section should be something like 

```suggestion
## Validation against best practices or company governance rules aka linting
```

> Now let's discuss options for validating against company best practices or governance.

Reviewer: it is important to not write `company best practices or governance` but `best practices or company governance rules`

it is because there can be some best practices, actually there are in spectral, that can be community-wide, not company specific

> When AsyncAPI is used by various members of the team in an organization, API management policies can be applied to your messages before they arrive to your broker.

Reviewer: what do you mean? is it spectral related?

Reviewer 2: sorry @derberg, what? I didn't understand this last question, sorry 😬😬😬😬

Reviewer: the thing is that this sentence sounds to me like this section is related to messages validation in runtime. But this section is supposed to be about governance. And good governance is when you know your documents are wrong before you even enter the runtime and start sending messages. And this should be about AsyncAPI documents validation, not just messages

how about
`When AsyncAPI is used by various teams, you want to make sure they follow the same rules and are consistent across the organization. It is not enough to validate AsyncAPI documents against official specification rules. An example would be that officially, `summary` property is optional, but in your organization, you want to make sure that it is always provided. You need a solution that enables you to enforce internal rules on AsyncAPI documents' providers`

makes sense?

> One way this can be done is by using **Spectral**, an API linting tool which has a built-in [custom ruleset properties](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/spectral/e5b9616d6d50c-custom-rulesets) with [AsyncAPI rules](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/spectral/1e63ffd0220f3-async-api-rules) for the AsyncAPI specification; these help define best practices for your Event-Driven APIs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One way this can be done is by using **Spectral**, an API linting tool which has a built-in [custom ruleset properties](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/spectral/e5b9616d6d50c-custom-rulesets) with [AsyncAPI rules](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/spectral/1e63ffd0220f3-async-api-rules) for the AsyncAPI specification. It also enables you to define company-specific rules that you can use internally. 
```

> To get started:

Reviewer: if we have these instructions to install spectral, set custom rules, is there a spectral cli command that I can run to validate my AsyncAPI document

Author: `spectral lint asyncapi.yaml`

Author: > `spectral lint asyncapi.yaml`

Is this technically correct?

Author: @derberg

Reviewer 2: lolll @derberg look up ⬆️ 🆙

Reviewer: yup, all good

### Validate against specification
Validating against the specification ensures that every content of the document is written in accordance with the AsyncAPI specification. Several tool options exist for validating against the specification: _AsyncAPI Studio_, _AsyncAPI CLI_, and _Parsers_.

#### AsyncAPI Studio validation 
[AsyncAPI Studio](https://github.com/asyncapi/studio#readme) provides a visual and easy way to validate your AsyncAPI documents against the specification. (It uses the [AsyncAPI JavaScript parser](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js) behind the scenes to perform syntax checks and validate documents.)

Errors in your document are highlighted with a red underline, showing which lines are invalid. The console also provides feedback, allowing you to further troubleshoot with detailed error messages. When a document is invalid, it provides the following error: `Empty or invalid document please fix errors / define AsyncAPI document`.

#### AsyncAPI CLI validation 
The following [AsyncAPI CLI](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli#installation) command validates AsyncAPI documents in your local computer or in CI/CD automation:

 ```
 asyncapi validate asyncapi.yaml

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: remove empty line

### Validation against best practices or company governance rules
Now let's discuss options for validating against best practices or company governance rules, also known as **linting**. When various teams use AsyncAPI, you want to ensure they follow the same rules and are consistent across the organization. It is not enough to validate AsyncAPI documents against official specification rules. 

<Remember>

Let's discuss an example. While the `summary` property is optional in an AsyncAPI document, you could choose to require it for your organization. You would then implement a solution that enables you to enforce internal rules on AsyncAPI documents' providers.

</Remember>

One way this can be done is by using **Spectral**, an API linting tool which has a built-in [custom ruleset properties](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/spectral/e5b9616d6d50c-custom-rulesets) with [AsyncAPI rules](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/spectral/1e63ffd0220f3-async-api-rules) for the AsyncAPI specification. It also enables you to define company-specific rules that you can use internally.  

To get started:
1. Install [Spectral](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/spectral/b8391e051b7d8-installation). 

> 2. Create a file named `.spectral.yaml` to begin writing your API description and document rules. 

Reviewer: please play a bit with this numbered list in some editor, it is breaking at the moment when rendered from markdown to HTML

<img width="2025" alt="Screenshot 2022-11-15 at 18 29 43" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6995927/201986852-1d1121a9-4558-48cd-90e7-a47aa8984d76.png">

you see, indents are wrong

for example step 2 should look like 👇🏼 to have proper indent
```
2. Create a file named `.spectral.yaml` to begin writing your API description and document rules. 
    Example:
    ```js
    {
      "formats": ["asyncapi2"],
      "extends": "spectral:asyncapi",
      "rules": {
        // add your own rules here
      }
    }
    ```
```

Example:

```
{
  "formats": ["asyncapi2"],
  "extends": "spectral:asyncapi",
  "rules": {
    // add your own rules here
  }
}
```

3. Create and add your own custom ruleset:

```
{
  "formats": [
    "asyncapi2"
  ],
  "extends": "spectral:asyncapi",
  "rules": {
    //add your rules here
    "valid-document-version": {
      "message": "Version must match 2.x.x",
      "severity": "hint",
      "given": "$.info",
      "then": [
        {
          "field": "version",
          "function": "defined"
        },
        {
          "field": "version",
          "function": "pattern",
          "functionOptions": {
            "match": "^[0-9]+$"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```
4. After setting up Spectral and creating custom rules following steps 1 - 3, validate your AsyncAPI document using this Spectral CLI command:

```
spectral lint asyncapi.yaml
```

---

## Additional resources
- [AsyncAPI **Studio READme**](https://github.com/asyncapi/studio#readme)
- [AsyncAPI **CLI READme**](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli#readme)
- [AsyncAPI **JavaScript Parsers READme**](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js#readme) 

> - [AsyncAPI **Go Parsers READme**](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-go#readme) 

Reviewer 2: Hey chica! @Annysah Don't forget to **add prev/next buttons** in this PR too ✌🏽

---

> title: "Validate AsyncAPI Documents"

Reviewer 2: @Annysah, I wonder if you have a fear of using paragraphs 😂 ! 

Jokes aside, you shouldn't write paragraphs of only 1 sentence unless there is a specific reason to highlight a sentence individually. Let's make sure we group sentences correctly to form paragraphs.

Author: > @Annysah, I wonder if you have a fear of using paragraphs 😂 !
> 
> Jokes aside, you shouldn't write paragraphs of only 1 sentence unless there is a specific reason to highlight a sentence individually. Let's make sure we group sentences correctly to form paragraphs.

Noted!

description: In this guide, you'll learn multiple ways to validate AsyncAPI documents.
weight: 120
---

# Introduction
When people talk about AsyncAPI validation, sometimes they mean completely different things: **validation of AsyncAPI documents** or **validation of messages in runtime** _(message validation against schemas provided in the AsyncAPI document)_. 

> This guide is about validating AsyncAPI documents to make sure they are correct. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide teaches multiple ways to validate AsyncAPI documents. 
```

The following sentence seems unnecessary: "... two main ways to validate in AsyncAPI: **validation of AsyncAPI documents** or **validation of messages in runtime** _(message validation against schemas provided in the AsyncAPI document)_. " 

This guide doesn't talk about message validation, so discussing topics outside this guide is confusing. I think this intro needs to be improved with context on AsyncAPI document validation only.

# Create AsyncAPI documents

> To validate an AsyncAPI document, you first need to have one. If you did not create one for your app yet, you can easily do so by using the [AsyncAPI CLI](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli#installation).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To validate an AsyncAPI document, you must first create one. You can create one using the [AsyncAPI CLI](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli#installation).
```

Generate a sample `asyncapi.yaml` file (AsyncAPI document) with the following CLI command: 

```
asyncapi new --example=default-example.yaml --no-tty
```

# Validate AsyncAPI documents
Validating an AsyncAPI document can mean one of two things: 
1. Validation against the specification.
2. Validation against the best practices or company governance rules.

## Validate against specification
Let's discuss options for validating against the specification. 

This ensures that every content of the document is written in accordance with the AsyncAPI specification.

> There are several tool options you may select for validating against the specification: _AsyncAPI Studio_, _AsyncAPI CLI_, and _Parsers_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Validating against the specification ensures that every content of the document is written in accordance with the AsyncAPI specification. Several tool options exist for validating against the specification: _AsyncAPI Studio_, _AsyncAPI CLI_, and _Parsers_.
```

### AsyncAPI Studio validation 
[AsyncAPI Studio](https://github.com/asyncapi/studio#readme) provides a visual and easy way to validate your AsyncAPI documents against the specification. 

It uses the [AsyncAPI JavaScript parser](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js) behind the scenes to perform syntax checks and validate documents.

Errors in your document are highlighted with a red underline, showing which lines are invalid. The console also provides feedback, allowing you to further troubleshoot with detailed error messages.

> When a document is invalid, it provides the following error: `Empty or invalid document please fix errors / define AsyncAPI document`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[AsyncAPI Studio](https://github.com/asyncapi/studio#readme) provides a visual and easy way to validate your AsyncAPI documents against the specification. (It uses the [AsyncAPI JavaScript parser](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js) behind the scenes to perform syntax checks and validate documents.)

Errors in your document are highlighted with a red underline, showing which lines are invalid. The console also provides feedback, allowing you to further troubleshoot with detailed error messages. When a document is invalid, it provides the following error: `Empty or invalid document please fix errors / define AsyncAPI document`.
```

### AsyncAPI CLI validation 
The following [AsyncAPI CLI](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli#installation) command validates AsyncAPI documents in your local computer or in automation:

 ```
 asyncapi validate asyncapi.yaml

 ```

> > You can also open the AsyncAPI Studio from the CLI by running the command `asyncapi start studio`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Remember>
You can also open AsyncAPI Studio from the CLI by running the command `asyncapi start studio`.
</Remember>
```

When adding an important note, please use our React component for `Remember` boxes. 😄 That is a better UX and more easily seen than this markdown note.

<img width="400" alt="Screen Shot 2022-11-08 at 4 42 22 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19964402/200708184-fce42b98-da18-4081-86de-2d2a70c46f83.png">

### Parsers (code) validation 
AsyncAPI provides official [JavaScript](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js) and [Go](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-go) parsers for validating the JSON schema in your AsyncAPI documents. 

<Remember>

> If you do not run your schemas through the parsers, the JSON schemas alone cannot complete the entire validation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Learn more about [custom JSON Schemas validation needs](https://github.com/asyncapi/spec-json-schemas#custom-validation-needs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Official parsers use [JSON Schema](https://github.com/asyncapi/spec-json-schemas/) created for AsyncAPI specification. JSON Schema is not enough to fully validate AsyncAPI documents. Learn more about [custom JSON Schemas validation needs](https://github.com/asyncapi/spec-json-schemas#custom-validation-needs). Official JavaScript parser supports and validates these special needs.

Take it into account if you're thinking about writing your own parser using official JSON Schema.
```

a bit more context

</Remember>

## Validation against best practices or company governance rules
Now let's discuss options for validating against best practices or company governance rules also known as **linting**.

> When AsyncAPI is used by various teams, you want to make sure they follow the same rules and are consistent across the organization. It is not enough to validate AsyncAPI documents against official specification rules. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now let's discuss options for validating against best practices or company governance rules, also known as **linting**. When various teams use AsyncAPI, you want to ensure they follow the same rules and are consistent across the organization. It is not enough to validate AsyncAPI documents against official specification rules. 
```

> An example would be that officially, `summary` property is optional, but in your organization, you want to make sure that it is always provided. You need a solution that enables you to enforce internal rules on AsyncAPI documents' providers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Remember>
Let's discuss an example. While the `summary` property is optional in an AsyncAPI document, you could choose to require it for your organization. You would then implement a solution that enables you to enforce internal rules on AsyncAPI documents' providers.
</Remember>
```

This info seemed more appropriate for a note/remember block, so I've added it.

Author: Hey @alequetzalli, what is the best way to format the `summary` property in the remember block? should it be in bold, italics or just as a normal word?
I tried using the `code` tag but didn't format it as I expected.

To get started:
1. Install [Spectral](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/spectral/b8391e051b7d8-installation). 
2. Create a file named `.spectral.yaml` to begin writing your API description and document rules. 

Example:

```
{
  "formats": ["asyncapi2"],
  "extends": "spectral:asyncapi",
  "rules": {
    // add your own rules here
  }
}
```

3. Create and add your own custom ruleset:

```
{
  "formats": [
    "asyncapi2"
  ],
  "extends": "spectral:asyncapi",
  "rules": {
    //add your rules here
    "valid-document-version": {
      "message": "Version must match 2.x.x",
      "severity": "hint",
      "given": "$.info",
      "then": [
        {
          "field": "version",
          "function": "defined"
        },
        {
          "field": "version",
          "function": "pattern",
          "functionOptions": {
            "match": "^[0-9]+$"
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

> 4. After setting up spectral and creating custom rules in accordance with steps 1 - 3, you can validate your AsyncAPI document by using the spectral cli command below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. After setting up Spectral and creating custom rules following steps 1 - 3, validate your AsyncAPI document using this Spectral CLI command:
```

---
title: "Validate AsyncAPI documents"
description: In this guide, you'll learn multiple ways to validate AsyncAPI documents.
weight: 120
---

## Introduction
This guide teaches multiple ways to validate AsyncAPI documents. 

## Create AsyncAPI document
To validate an AsyncAPI document, you must first create one. You can create one using the [AsyncAPI CLI](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli#installation).

Generate a sample `asyncapi.yaml` file (AsyncAPI document) with the following CLI command: 

```
asyncapi new --example=tutorial.yml --no-tty

> ```

Reviewer: as this is guide about validation I think we do not need a section about creating asyncapi.yaml like we do in case of tutorials. I would suggest it is a `remember` note, or not event here

> asyncapi new --example=default-example.yaml --no-tty

Reviewer: ```suggestion
asyncapi new --example=tutorial.yml --no-tty
```

please use this one in all tutorials from now on

Author: Noted! @derberg

## Validate AsyncAPI documents
Validating an AsyncAPI document can mean one of two things: 
- Validation against the specification.
- Validation against the best practices or company governance rules also known as linting.

### Validate against specification
Validating against the specification ensures that every content of the document is written in accordance with the AsyncAPI specification. Several tool options exist for validating against the specification: _AsyncAPI Studio_, _AsyncAPI CLI_, and _Parsers_.

#### AsyncAPI Studio validation 

> [AsyncAPI Studio](https://github.com/asyncapi/studio#readme) provides a visual and easy way to validate your AsyncAPI documents against the specification. (It uses the [AsyncAPI JavaScript parser](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js) behind the scenes to perform syntax checks and validate documents.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[AsyncAPI Studio](https://studio.asyncapi.com/) provides a visual and easy way to validate your AsyncAPI documents against the specification. (It uses the [AsyncAPI JavaScript parser](https://github.com/asyncapi/parser-js) behind the scenes to perform syntax checks and validate documents.)
```

Reviewer: is it correct to have text in `()` as standalone sentence?

Author: I once saw @alequetzalli do this, so I went ahead to read about it. 

This is an example reference.

<img width="545" alt="Capture" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52763841/203899836-5b6b47c4-5319-4a15-8999-6496c26902be.PNG">

> Errors in your document are highlighted with a red underline, showing which lines are invalid. The console also provides feedback, allowing you to further troubleshoot with detailed error messages. When a document is invalid, it provides the following error: `Empty or invalid document please fix errors / define AsyncAPI document`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Errors in your document are highlighted with a red underline, showing which lines are invalid. The `Diagnostics` section also provides feedback, allowing you to further troubleshoot with detailed error messages. When a document is invalid, it provides the following error: `Empty or invalid document please fix errors / define AsyncAPI document`.
```

we have new studio with better validation now

To get started:
1. Install [Spectral](https://meta.stoplight.io/docs/spectral/b8391e051b7d8-installation). 
2. Create a file named `.spectral.yaml` to begin writing your API description and document rules. 
    Example:
    ```js
    {
      "formats": ["asyncapi2"],
      "extends": "spectral:asyncapi",
      "rules": {
        // add your own rules here
      }
    }
    ```

3. Create and add your own custom ruleset:
 ```js
    {
      "formats": ["asyncapi2"],
      "extends": "spectral:asyncapi",
      "rules": {
        // add your own rules here
        "valid-document-version": {
          "message": "Version must match 2.x.x",
          "severity": "hint",
          "given": "$.info",
          "then": [
            {
              "field": "version",
              "function": "defined"
            },
            {
              "field": "version",
              "function": "pattern",
              "functionOptions": {
                "match": "^[0-9]+$"
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  ```

4. After setting up Spectral and creating custom rules following steps 1 - 3, validate your AsyncAPI document using this Spectral CLI command:

> ```
> spectral lint asyncapi.yaml
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```
    spectral lint asyncapi.yaml
    ```
```

without indentation it renders like it is not part of point 4
![Screenshot 2022-12-01 at 15 22 29](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6995927/205076998-6a69194a-d697-42ca-952b-b222821a3d59.png)

---

> ## Additional resources

Reviewer: do we need those if they are already linked in previous sections?

Author: I think it's great a way to make users access more resources from one place, i.e anyone who just wants to visit the guide can just learn more on the go.

> ---

Reviewer 2: Heyooo @Annysah! here's what I'm going to do here... I will rewrite this a little to show you how information architecture works when writing `guides` content and also to give an editorial review. This now NEW `guide` will have an outline different than what we have in tutorials because **the purpose of a `guide` is to explain a tech's capabilities and features at a high level**.

For `guides`, let's shoot for the following outline structure:
- Introduction
- Prerequisites (dev setup/tools users need in described scenarios covered)
- SCENARIO A
- SCENARIO B 
- SCENARIO C 
- Additional Resources _(when applicable)_

Reviewer 2: As a side note, since you are repurposing this as a `guide`, it would have been ideal if you had remembered to review this document for the word **tutorial** so you could update it correctly. 😜 

@Annysah

Author: > As a side note, since you are repurposing this as a `guide`, it would have been ideal if you had remembered to review this document for the word **tutorial** so you could update it correctly. stuck_out_tongue_winking_eye
> 
> @Annysah

Oops !😬. I actually did but completely didn't look at what I had in my meta-data 🤦‍♀️

Author: > Heyooo @Annysah! here's what I'm going to do here... I will rewrite this a little to show you how information architecture works when writing `guides` content and also to give an editorial review. This now NEW `guide` will have an outline different than what we have in tutorials because **the purpose of a `guide` is to explain a tech's capabilities and features at a high level**.
> 
> For `guides`, let's shoot for the following outline structure:
> 
> * Introduction
> * Prerequisites (dev setup/tools users need in described scenarios covered)
> * SCENARIO A
> * SCENARIO B
> * SCENARIO C
> * Additional Resources _(when applicable)_

Will the scenarios in this case be the "Validation against the specification" and "Validation against the company's best practices..."?

Reviewer 2: exactly !
